okay so let me ask you this we're right
now in Seattle Washington State USA you
had hopes and expectations of this place
you know I remember you be really
excited and first artivist yeah we first
got on the train to come here you know
we first talked about it back when we
were living in China together I was just
thinking this because you were
mentioning that Thailand used to mean
something to me very different for what
it means today and I was starting to say
after that you know for me that's like a
reason to move to Ireland or a place
like Ireland where I really have no
expectations where it doesn't mean
anything to me I don't want it to mean
anything you know my expectations around
are really really low
I'm really really realistic but you've
just come through a series of places
Victoria BC Vancouver and now Seattle Y
I don't know but what was what were your
expectations for sale well you know
growing up in Michigan I didn't and I
always thought being particularly
beautiful I have been to California
because my oldest brother lives there
and I was really impressed by but I knew
after seeing pictures it was really
beautiful
so that was you know that was really my
expectation I didn't have a lot of
rotations about the city itself
you know I think I think on that
specific issue I think Vancouver lived
up to expectations on the specific issue
of using the moments Vancouver I think
more so though yeah yeah I would say
Victoria didn't but it was partly just
because it was so overcast when you
happen to be there you couldn't get the
view because it was just so dark and
right here because you noticed that
within a few days in Vancouver we came
back and saw the same view a few days
later where we go we can see another
mountain range before we want you to
close this mountain right no I know it
seems else I'm sorry I'm it seems
shallow but it really does like you know
change just living somewhere yeah nice
living in Michigan it was just
like dreary the weather sucks and like
just you know what what is what is
positive about living there and just on
a basic level being able to look out at
the horizon and see something beautiful
is you know it's so um but you know
everywhere in Victoria if you look out
you'll see the ocean and that's yes
sirree
Boise when we only have a few days in
Victoria before we came out here to
Seattle yeah many of those same views
like when you let you south from
Victoria when the sky is clearer you see
over the ocean two mountains beyond
suspension actually when you get back
there were more views and I'm with him
you know for me the mountains out there
kind of represent something quite
different from what they do for you like
you know again I've been to places you
have to I've been to places like Austria
and Switzerland and France and even the
Cote d'Azur is also known as the ALP
Maritim you know the maritime Alps you
know what you are the melons are right
there rising up and Austria oh really
okay you okay you I thought you'd seen
some mountains but your parents have
been travelling in Europe lately too so
I thought okay never mind
though your parents are about to go to
Finland of all places but look my point
was in some of those places where the
mountains are ancient and continuously
inhabited by culture and definitely Laos
is like that Laos is all Mountain I mean
yes it smells and mountain valleys but
you know in one river one big river that
goes through it the Mekong River
but in Laos you know I've said this to
you in other words but you're on one
side of the mountain and there's one
culture and language spoken and you go
out the mountain come down the mountain
there's another culture and language
spoken and for me you know the mountains
and the geography they're really tied to
my sense of one yes the genocide in
general when history of British prison
that's a little bit too simplistic it's
also the the failure of the colonial
culture or coming in after that like I
the same mountain it's not the case that
I look at that mountain I see some kind
of great accomplishment of French and
English culture I mean you know it's
it's been kind of exploited for what it
was worth
cutting down wood or digging up gold
yeah and then it moves on now there's
nothing of nail most of the beautiful
views we get in terms of intact forests
is forced that's grown bad yeah after
it's all good we just saw it mean an
eyeball another city we've been in where
were visiting University but you know it
was a coal mining town it doesn't it
doesn't look like that now but a lot of
those views no row it looks like I mean
it looked like old forests but it's
probably less than 50 years where you
know we knew the coal mines went under
it came up in the other Island so that
Island is probably grown back since that
coal mine ran out of coal right I felt
that way I felt that way when I visited
the Upper Peninsula in Michigan because
like you know the views of the forest
seemed pretty spectacular but knowing
that it used to be completely barren
because of logging was that's pretty sad
you know it's not old-growth forests up
there
so yeah it's the same it's the same
issues too with you steppe native people
you know like this kind of this kind of
setting with with the water and with the
forests so you know it's it's a really
good set up for native peoples you know
they were able to fish at the fish in
the water you know it's the same the
native language is extinct the exalted
soul the native people are yeah so I've
never lived in a place like Egypt like
in Egypt you have the ancient indigenous
culture you know the pyramids you know
we just saw several museums showing this
council just mentioned a book
coincidence we lately been seeing some
ancient Egyptian stuff and then you have
the modern civilization or continuous
with the modern era which is Islamic and
linked to Arabia and you know trade with
the Ottoman Empire and with Arabia and
it's part of a very different geography
and linguistic group of languages it's
over the world you know I don't know how
I feel where you have one civilization
replaced by another which is just as
dense shall we say for life in her word
well what I feel when I'm in a place
like the west coast of Canada is well
there was
indigenous civilization and what it was
replaced by was the industrialized wild
it was just exploited in the landscape
for mommy and then on the other hand
these cities you know I've mixed
feelings about so we can move arm that I
just mentioned you haven't read my old
like I was gonna say teenaged philosophy
but it's really early 20s philosophy but
I really have these two like manifestos
I wrote at the end of my first
university degree what kind of a
philosophy of that time which would be
really weird for me to look back at now
now to but every one of them I think has
the industrialized while in the title
you know cuz back then that's before
veganism was defining my identity it was
when I'm you know ecology was defining
my identity and it's harder it's harder
to define yourself until t I've said
this before mother is a like veganism is
that it just it just clarifies and makes
easier a lot of things about life is an
act was before I'd latched on to that
idea and it's before I got into Buddhism
heavily to so interesting turn our life
but yeah that that sense of discontent I
think it by just say it would be
different in Egypt it would be different
in you know the Alps of Switzerland or
something and it would be different in a
place like Laos or Cambodia which have
you don't have mountains to I have
little bits and pieces of experience of
that but yeah for me I definitely feel
uneasy with that that landscape now okay
moving on from the the physical jars to
the actual cities in this day and age
it's a weird thing that's on whether
we're talking about Thailand we're
talking about Japan or talking about
Western Canada like what did you expect
this is no I'm not gonna preform your
response here but let's face it on a
technological level a city in Japan is
so similar to a city in America you know
like that buildings are made at a
concrete like 98% of the buildings look
the same in Japan and in bridge
Colombian in town you know I mean just
there was a time 100 years ago when if
you flew okay I don't know if you'd be
flying if you do this if you took a ship
whatever however you're traveling you
know however you're traveling from Egypt
to Europe and Europe to America America
Asia immediately architectural you know
the way people live and how the
things have very fundamentally different
and we now live in an era when all those
things are fundamentally the same yeah
so then given that given that base level
of sameness we're like when we went from
France to Detroit and from Detroit to
Seattle there's a sense in which we're
expecting everything to be the same so
what were you expecting to be to be
different will it be more
pedestrian-friendly yeah no you know
growing up in Detroit it's all based on
cars and it is surprising getting here
and seeing how the city is still still
built on cars we have not made use of
the public transport much here
transportation here yeah we have another
week approximately to get to know
Seattle yeah and draw our conclusions
yeah you can just see like the
infrastructure and I I hmm
I got the sense that maker was yeah okay
that's not I thought you were gonna say
Vancouver is kind of making the same
mistakes but dehumanizing yeah structure
event so so does just so much of it
nobody's thought of how a pedestrian
would get through these towering
freeways yeah overpasses and underpasses
and and what-have-you we're the you know
there's some possibility to exist there
was a pedestrian but it's very much
there was a as an afterthought or
something yeah it's not by the way nice
is a city in southern France a lot of
people don't have nerve you know I
probably grew with you that Vancouver is
better than Seattle in that way but I
mean another big late motif in both
cities is just seeing the armies of the
undead walking the streets you know drug
addicts in Vancouver they sometimes were
sagging around like zombies it's not
they were they were more zombie like
than most zombies and they were
literally staggering on the streets here
in Seattle I wonder if the quality of
crack is better or something they seem
to be more lively and cheery but there
are a lot of drug addicts on the street
yeah now look I'll ask you
- so the France France is not paradise
but did we do we see that even once like
maybe I'm forgetting like maybe once we
saw a drug addict on the street in the
Cote d'Azur but honest honestly it may
not even be once we may not have seen
one person in that state of distress Joe
say I saw you know as you say it's
Street buskers yes really yes so I mean
that that's that's a that's a big
difference and you know I bought Bob
Dylan it's a wine in one of his own
strong's you know it was part of his own
songs the weak and the strong and the
rich and the poor you get them together
there ain't room for no more it is a
strange thing to be in the United States
America but in Vancouver is I think just
as guilty of it or more so and you do
see this these really incongruous
contrasts between wealth and poverty and
I mean all cities are projects that are
measured out in centuries but in France
we were looking at cities where you
really could feel that the weight of the
centuries of the gradual rational
progress of trying to make the best of
the limited land that God and here I
mean I'm walking around last night
trying to get home you know we were
walking home most of the streets that we
were on looked very similar soon yes
style of condo same yeah same blocks of
cheap and cheap apartments and in some
cases a bouquet same cheap they're not
everything here is overpriced yeah but
yeah block after block are the same the
same kind of development yeah anyway I
didn't come here with any real
expectations for Seattle to live up to
um I have seen Seattle named as a kind
of success story in American urban
planning in American cities in contrast
to the self-evident disasters of Los
Angeles and Chicago Hollen again I'm
even over those places are disasters but
they're often regretted as if their
disaster they're talked about as if
they're disasters so people say well you
know there is Seattle also like it's not
all like south-central Los Angeles or
it's not all like the worst parts of
Chicago that there are these positive
examples to to counter it to I don't
know I mean you know yes Seattle's got
mountains Seattle's got ocean of all the
places in the world do I mean I'm just
saying this is not the only place to
hold that hold that claim to fame um I'm
I'm pretty uncomfortable with regarding
this as as an exception to the rule and
I guess the the ray of hope here was you
know hearing that they raised the
minimum wage but you know so the minimum
wage sure in Seattle that was $15 an
hour is it an even more disappointing
$15 an hour for jobs that I could apply
to yes so that's true because we have
been looking at maybe they've announced
that they are raising it to $15 an hour
and it's gonna be a gradual hike
well this is the opposite I think part
of the effect of that it's the same
thing we found the grocery store it's
just that a lot of the businesses moved
to the city limits because a large part
of Seattle is not technically in Seattle
you know there's a dotted line where
Seattle stops so you know Tacoma is not
Seattle or whatever you know and in
Seattle is a weird spread out city again
for a pedestrian very very hard to hard
to get around hard to cope with you know
so you wonder if it just you know
removes those jobs from the downtown
core two more of those two more of those
suburbs but no we have been both both
just for our own education and no more
missing out on and possibly to apply for
a real job we have been looking at job
listings in all these places and yeah I
mean two really brief things on that one
it's hard to imagine surviving just
though the income to rent ratio is
really bad in all these places is it
worse in Vancouver than it is Seattle
it's hard to say but these are some
these must be some of the worst places
or I don't know what's worse is Rome in
Italy worse and what's what's worse okay
maybe sure I'll give you I'm not gonna
debate me oh but I mean these these are
remarkably black bad places to live just
in terms of the ratio of your income to
to the cost of housing yeah yeah it's
possible this the urban planning is good
to other cities and around America you
know like yeah comparing it to Miami I
don't know what you're doing right yeah
Atlanta Georgia yeah sure right I
presume it's cars well in a way it's
also the history is related segregation
it's really us you know historically
then I'm trying to cope with that but it
was created in the era of segregation I
mean black neighborhoods I'm waiting for
it some do I just say Atlanta there are
many many examples of that
Chicago is too so you know it's then how
do you cope now given that the map was
all divided into the colored squares
until recently yeah yeah so yeah
compared to America probably is a
success story for sure but compared to
European cities I think work to do
right well I just mentioned one part of
Canada - you haven't explored and it is
too cold for you is Quebec and Quebec is
the one part of this whole continent
where they're not imitating the United
States of America they're not trying to
be like New York City where they're
trying to imitate and emulate a european
standard of quality of life so that is
always an interesting thing about Quebec
even when you heat the government in
Quebec it's no different elections
different governments come and go like
you know what it's the Conservative
Party in Quebec and you don't like them
you normally can still recognize that
that the Conservatives in Quebec are
people who fly back and forth to Paris
and the Cote d'Azur and other parts of
Europe they're cosmopolitan in that
sense and they know they say look it's
not enough for us to measure up to
Tacoma Washington or something like this
or Washington DC for that matter that
there is a higher standard out there for
them to dump title about to look the
other thing is the other criterion for
why would you move to Nanaimo rather
than you know Seattle you know why are
we looking these other places is the
cost of tuition and that's you know this
is the deep dark hole it seems nobody in
America is gonna take their way out of
yeah what is your income worth relative
to your cost of rents and then what is
your income worth
relative to the cost of education and
for me you know I joke about it as soon
as I look at these offers and it's for a
couple thousand dollars here and there
it's like do you want me to just
estimate how much I've spent on
education in the last five years
not even in total for my whole life for
something
how can I justify taking on this this
kind of work you know thanks to veganism
I do have a justification I mean for me
if I take on work as a baker earning
$12.50 an hour which is an option you
know it's kind of job I've been applying
for lately I can justify that to myself
ideologically you're idealistic Lior
politically what everyone's saying okay
baking is meaningful to me because of
the vegan movement you know this leads
me down this path I'm getting an
education or experience in this area and
I really care about this so you know
there's caring about baking and this
caring boat about veganism but for the
vast majority of people living in these
cities
I mean it's it is look it's bleak even
if it doesn't look a bleak on the
surface because of the cost of Education
and because of the cost of rent yeah
that's lurking behind okay look so we're
giving we're giving Seattle another week
and then we're going back to Canada
um I don't know I mean from my
generation I don't know what it would be
like to land somewhere you know get off
an airplane and get off a boat somewhere
and say wow this place is really
happening this is the land of
opportunity you know I've never had that
experience I never felt that way in
London England I never felt that way in
Madrid or Barcelona I was like you know
I've never gone somewhere I thought oh
wow that's having if I gone to Japan
you know I applied to go to Japan but I
ended up in China said maybe I would
have maybe I would have gone to Japan I
thought wow this is a place where I can
earn a good living and live a good life
and support my daughter at before year
old daughter you know what I mean maybe
I would have felt that way about Japan
but I have never had that feeling in my
life so if I came to Seattle thinking
this is a better brighter future and
this is just a place where I can earn a
living commensurate with the cost of
rent and the cost of my own past
education or something um I've got to
tell you long story short my feeling is
this ain't it and the flip side of that
is a city like Victoria which is a
one-hour boat ride from here
dramatically lower rents dramatically
cheaper cost of education and you know I
hope there are enough intelligent people
aren't there that I can practice you
know improving my Chinese we can both
practice and improve our ability to
speak French we could also do German
there
yeah so far I've I've been impressed the
most by Victoria so you like three days
there so far three very rainy cold days
this I've really appreciated being able
to see the surrounding cities incidental
weren't able to move into the apartment
when we were in Victoria you know we
were ready to move in right but since
it's not ready right still not ready
we've been able to visit Vancouver and
now Seattle so I'm getting to see what
I'm missing in the other cities and the
surrounding areas I had one I had one
professor he used to say all the time I
hate it but it was true his cache line
was you know don't don't compare me to
the almighty compare me to the
alternative and in a lot of ways for a
generation we were just talking to a
phlegm face the alternatives include
Scotland the intro of the alternatives
include Ireland they include Hong Kong
and Thailand it's a long long list of
alternatives for people you know people
in the 21st century you know but yeah I
mean you know you do have to compare it
to the alternative you do have to see
the value of a place like Victoria in
that in that comparative context and
yeah yeah I just concur with you and
look guys don't worry this is not the
final word in this is already a 20
minute video but bomi's I'll be
interested to see you come on three
months from now or six months from now
and talk about where you're at then in
terms of how you view the Pacific
Northwest how you view Canada does an
interesting thing yeah we've been going
to museums and you've been learning some
Canadian history for the first time oh
no offence as an American
she doesn't really grow with any
appearance of of Canadian history or
what's what's unique and difference you
know in what ways our healthcare system
doesn't work if you're learning this do
you learn the ropes because it'll be
interesting to see oh how you progress
on that and then also I think it'll be
interesting to catch up and get your
perspective on on baking